The
What's up everybody this is Jason with Dev slopes dot com and in this video we are going to learn how
to style different elements in our html page.
All right.
So there's three methods that we can use to accomplish this.
The first one is we can directly target the element.
All right.
The second we can grab it by the class or third we can add an ID to it.
Now the first thing we're going to learn is how to directly target an element.
So if you look in our team here we've got a body tag.
All right.
So within the body tag is where all of our content lives.
This is a direct element here.
If I was to go below it and simply add a header tag here.
This is going to be another specific element.
So let me show you how we can directly target these.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to do a vertical split here.
That way we have the HTML on the left and the SS on the right and we are going to directly target the
element.
All right.
So come over here into your SS And what we're going to do to target this direct body tag is first we're
going to write the word body.
All right.
Just by writing that we have now grab that specific element.
Now after this create some curly braces and go ahead and press enter our right to open that up.
Now inside of this this is where we can declare our styling properties for this specific body tag.
All right.
So let me show you how the syntax works on this.
So in this first part here we're going to write the property K and we're going to be adding a background
color to this body here.
And then on the right side of this we're going to put the value are right and you can see two separate.
This first we're going to add a colon.
All right and then add a space and then we're going to put the value in.
And right now I'm going to put in a hex code for a color.
All right.
Let me grab this color over here and I'm just going to paste it right here and I'm going to close it
off with a semi-colon.
All right.
So we've directly grabbed the element we've created some curly braces on the left side of this.
We have got the property we're separating it by a colon.
And then we've added the value which in this case is going to be a color.
All right.
And I'm going to go ahead and save that.
So go back to your HTML file and then let's go ahead and launch this so we can preview it.
So as you can see we've added this very very soft purple color to the background.
All right so in this case we directly targeted the body element.
All right come back over to brackets and let's play with this head Hetter one tag right here.
So in the head or tag let's just write anything you want I'm going to write.
Skateboarding is awesome.
OK.
Perfect.
So we've got a header tag and we're going to go and do the same exact thing that we did with the body
tag.
So to grab the head or tag it simply going to be H-1 create your curly braces.
Open it up.
And in this case let's change the font color.
So we're going to go.
Actually we're just typing in color and then we can add whatever color we want to this.
And I'm just going to type in red.
All right you see there's a different couple of different ways that we can use colors in CSSA.
So what I've done here is I've grabbed the head of one element and I've given it a property and the
value of red.
So I'm going to go ahead and save that from back to my preview here.
And you can see that I've added this text right here in the center.
Pretty awesome.
All right.
So let's let's do another thing here.
So we're learning how to directly target these elements and we know that we can add these properties
and values in here.
You can actually assign multiple styling properties to a single element.
And here's how you do that.
So right after the semi colon in our head or one class here go ahead and press enter and then you can
add other properties such as a text align with the value of center.
All right.
And what this is going to do is going to shift the text right into the center of our screen.
Right.
So all right so kind of making sense getting the hang of it.
Perfect.
All right let's let's add a class to an element now.
So using these these are direct elements k now right underneath our head or one tag.
Go ahead and create a DIV tag.
And to add a class to an element we're going to write the word class equal sign and then to two quotations
and then inside of here we can name our class.
All right and we can name this whatever we want.
And in this case I'm going to this square.
All right.
And then I'm going to go ahead and just close that off.
All right so with this class here too to use it to target it come back over to our success and to grab
a class.
We're going to start with a period.
And then the name of the class that we assign to it.
All right.
And then same thing curly braces we're going to open that up.
And now with this we can add style properties to it.
So for example let's go ahead.
I'm going to build a square here so I'm going to give a width of 100 pixels.
Close it off with a semi cone.
We're going to add a height of 100 pixels.
Close it off with the semi colon and then to top this off let's give a color and I'm going to go ahead
and type in background color and let's give it a name.
What colors do we have to choose from here.
Let's do a blue.
All right something really simple here and then close that off with a semi-colon.
All right and then I'm going to save this I'm going to come back to my preview.
Go ahead and refresh it.
And we have carried a blue square right over here to the left and for this let's go ahead and just Center
all of this content I'm going to come back over to brackets under the square.
I can add a property of margin and then assign a value of auto.
And what this does is it puts equal spacing on each side of my element to center it right in the middle
of the screen.
All right perfect.
So now we've got a square there.
So starting to make sense right.
All right.
Now the last method that we can use to to style an element is an idea and to do that.
Let's create another div tag and this time we're going to write.
ID equals and then two quotations and then we're going to put the name of our idea in here.
All right and then this one in this case I'm going to call a circle and then just let's give it some
text.
Hey I'm a circle.
All right.
Great.
Now one thing to note about using IDS.
All right ideas should be used very very sparingly.
And when we're using an ID whatever name that we're going to assign to it it needs to be very very specific
and very unique.
You shouldn't be using ID's all over the place.
OK.
And I would try to avoid it using IDs to style things.
Ideas allow us to interact with our team mail through javascript and on top of that you can add styles
to them ballots.
Let me show you how we can target this class using an ID.
So over in our C Ss we're going to write a pound sign and then the name of our ID and then the same
curly braces and then we can add a property and a value to it.
So inside of this div tag I've put some text.
So let's go ahead and add some style to it.
Let's make our font color let's go ahead and change this to what shows up on purple or dark red.
All right.
And then we can add a font size and let's make this 40 pixels.
And that should do it.
That's simple enough.
All right.
Go ahead and save that and then back over to our preview.
Refresh it.
And we have added some text.
Hey I am a circle.
All right let's come back over here to bracket's And let's talk about some use case scenarios when we
would use these different types of selectors.
So for example this Hetter one tag here.
All right we assigned a color and a text line of center.
So in reality what this has done is it's saying every single head or one tag that I use it's going to
have a color of red and it takes a line or center.
Now obviously having a text line of center on every single head tag might not make sense or having the
color red.
So be mindful when you target these elements directly you are assigning a broad style property that
is going to work across the board for you.
All right.
Now when we dive into the class here we've got this class of square what we're doing here is when we
have a lot of elements on the page we can assign different classes to them.
Think of a button.
For example we create a button class and it has a certain size certain font color padding and things
like that different colors.
Now we can create this button class and then every single button that we're using in our page we can
go ahead and add that Button class to it.
So classes are great when you want to use the same styling in multiple areas throughout your web site
or web app.
And then the last thing here these IDs.
Again it's really important that you use these IDs sparingly when you are using it in styling.
Unless it's something very very specific that you need to happen or want.
And again IDs are mainly And traditionally used to interact with your email through javascript.
That said this is the difference between the three different types of selectors.
How do you use them and how you can style your smell with them.